if you've ever used the LimeWire to
illegally download a very low quality
mp3 of Akon smack that that's actually
Afro man's because I got high but also
the file is mislabeled as sandstorm by
Stan with Eminem and parentheses and oh
no wait nevermind it's actually just
twelve viruses in the trench coat
disguised as a song I have one question
to ask you you wouldn't download a
[__] car would you
the year is 1999 and I am five years old
ah ladies giant hat as I play space
cadet pinball on my father's very heavy
set windows 98 off-white desktop
computer while farting and coming over
in Massachusetts Shawn Fanning and Shawn
Parker portrayed by Justin Timberlake
obviously launched a little application
called Napster and Napster says hi music
industry I'm Napster and I want to set
you on fire for the very first time
there is an easy-to-use tool available
to the masses that lets you download all
of the music in all of the lands and for
free oh my god that's crazy and this is
pretty monumental because music had
existed since the the first time Adam
was like everybody clap your hands and
Eve was like stop it what is happening
cut out and now thanks to the mpeg-1
audio layer 3 aka the mp3 if you didn't
go to college you didn't have to buy a
physical record or cassette or CD just
to listen to one song CD more like do
you see these songs on my computer
saying now Napster is super important
not just because it lets you download
kryptonite by three doors down really
slowly in for free but because it
introduced peer-to-peer or p2p
file-sharing to the masses what
peer-to-peer means is that instead of
one person uploading a file to central
server and then another person
downloading that file from a central
server peer-to-peer takes out the
middleman and just lets people shared
files and dirty little secrets directly
with each other dirty little secret
obviously being a reference to the
all-american
rejects smash hit move along moving
moving along p2p can be used to transfer
all sorts of files not just mp3s and
eventually it will like oh like a lot
like a lot of porn but naturally let you
do mp3s and Napster gets crazy popular
eventually reaching like 80 million
registered users at its peak which if
you know simple math you know that
that's more than four but the Recording
Industry Association of America
aka RIA isn't having any of that [__] on
December 7th 1999 only months after the
launch of Napster RIA filed suit on
Napster's buttcheeks on behalf of the 5
major record labels
UMG SME wmg EMI BMG KFC CKY between its
launch in 1999 and its shutdown in 2001
basically everyone and their dog tried
to sue Napster a.m. records Metallica
dr. Dre who is he famously said [__]
Napster but this was a ton of publicity
for the app and it only led to more and
more people sprinting towards Napster to
take advantage of the service before it
would inevitably be taken down the
service finally shut down in July 11th
2001 but dog it was too late the effects
were irreversible the entire internet
had done a sick-ass Superman seat grab
and completely transformed almost
overnight but with no Napster where did
people turn allow me to introduce you to
my friend Kazan Oh have you met
this is my very lightweight tiny friend
who's eventually gonna kind of be a huge
deal
his name is Britt tour while Kazaa and
LimeWire were the apps that were the
most popular immediately after Napster's
death in 2001 both of them were a little
bit goofy Oh a little a little drunk
maybe maybe they were hitting grandmas
popper cabinet I don't know LimeWire was
released in May of 2000 by a dude named
Martin Gordon who has degrees from
Harvard Yale and Stanford and apparently
all of them meant nothing to him made
LimeWire and Kazaa was released in 2001
and was developed by some Scandinavian
dudes whose names I'm not even gonna
attempt to pronounce but they also would
later go on to help develop Skype
what is this [__] History Channel I
don't look like an iceberg truck but
also more extra importantly both of
these were absolute garbage Freder
computer I want to talk specifically
about Kazaa first cuz ah here was closed
source which means that to this day
people don't know like exactly how
everything worked for example the
algorithm used to double-check that two
files are actually the same thing like
if to do both uploads say my name by
Destiny's Child and it's trying to like
double check that they're both the same
things we can organize them it did not
do a good job which means that a you
could download what you thought was it's
been a while by stained but surprised
[__] that's weird out and be if you're
downloading some software or video games
that have some dot exe in them um please
dot e excuse me from my computer before
I invite 17 really cool viruses into my
home and hey you remember our pal Rita
they were doing it - yeah they were
fighting the war on illegally
downloading music by spreading fake ass
corrupt files on cos off isn't the
Internet's more crazy another small but
also a kind of huge bad thing about the
app um it was riddled with adware a
malware and spyware basically everywhere
you could think of it had a WarioWare
Ace Hardware
but regardless Kazaa is popping off horn
from like 2001 to 2004 ish so horn that
in 2003 are our favorite pal reah over
here says you know what [__] it
if we can't sue Kazaa we're just gonna
start suing a bunch of Kazaa users
directly for a [__] ton of money like
college students
why [__] that's why you don't need a
[__] business degree Society is a lot
anarchy do gamers are the government as
you could imagine traffic starts to die
down on Kasab because users getting
afraid of going to jail and while users
scattered to other p2p services like
LimeWire in 2006 cos z parent company
Charmin is sued by MGM in this huge
lawsuit and ends up settling for the
little tiny baby amount of a hundred
million dollars which is a lot of I mean
I'll rephrase it from my younger viewers
so they could better understand it it's
like it's like if you took four of your
mom's credit cards yeah yeah okay so
anyways what Kazaa and LimeWire had in
common is all of the bad stuff
mislabeled files viruses malware a
really cool feature where every song is
actually just Bill Clinton saying I did
not have sexual relations with that
woman miss Lewinsky why water would even
eventually release a version that you
could pay for called LimeWire Pro that
promised better search results and
faster downloads but because life is
hilarious and pirates always find a way
around stuff you could just download
LimeWire pro with LimeWire which is the
funniest thing in the world it wasn't
perfect it was probably gonna require
your parents computer to go to Planned
Parenthood and get tested for every STD
imaginable but goddamn it bro I got a
download that new avril lavigne though
even though it was beautiful disaster
LimeWire had a good long run from 2000
till it's ordered shut down in 2010 when
the US District Court claimed that
LimeWire and its Ivy League creative
market Orton were both found guilty of
copyright infringement and unfair
competition
hey you're not super low-key chill
friend especially when he suggested the
LimeWire owes him 72 trillion dollars
and damages to the music industry which
is more money than the earth which
luckily the judge thought was ridiculous
and they settled for a hundred five
million which is like practically
nothing and overtime music movies and TV
shows
gradually figured things out and evolved
with piracy unlimited music for like 10
bucks a month on Spotify is a pretty
beautiful evolution of the Internet's
capabilities and it's way better than
running the risk of downloading the
Soulja Boy travis barker remix on
LimeWire and running the risk of
infecting your dad's computer with a
funny disease and also potentially
getting sued by Rio for downloading a
Travis Barker production so what the
[__] is the point of all of this well
okay so yeah people are always gonna
want [__] for free and that's never
gonna change but also a lot of people
are willing to pay money and support
content that the caramel
if you trust and respect shown on both
sides but more importantly you can get
LimeWire pro with LimeWire that's it for
today I really do hope you're doing well
and please stay tuned for a message from
our sponsor do your clothes look man to
your clothes make you feel like when you
look at him you go ah well here at jakey
jakey and cheeky I'm scrubbing that off
we really know how we have clothes that
can protect you from situations of
hazard such as going to the mall in the
end the guy at the Dairy Queen saying
hey we don't serve both of us like you
here brand shirts like that or when you
go to ace hardware and you're trying to
get a lug nut and the guy said
nice try bozo shirt jiggy jiggy jiggy
I'm running that long I'll protect you
from all of this shirts like the Nikki
and JT special videos unit to let people
know when you wear the hey man I've seen
a guy die before and I've seen that a
man did my job for the dignity me and JP
I'm turning that la loco t-shirt
featuring
our many mantras that we say as a sort
of a cheat sheet different situations
where you are always legally going on
such as we're on the case and we're
going to it if you break the law you
break the jaw
I can smell crime with my sniffers if
you rob someone then that that means
they have no money you're probably going
in jail well not you but maybe you if
you do crimes I guess really it just
depends okay bye and we have other
shirts now too and we had them before as
well but they're still there if you feel
like we can give you the protection that
you require today head on over to
teespring teespring comm for science
stores four types maybe jvm and heaven
jiggy-jiggy and take a turn on them
handle your case
please my memory I'm going to sleep now
[Music]